>> Kyle Simpson: And so now we have
ended up back where we started several
slides back which is now we have
a single reduction using our transducer.
Take several deep breaths,
I heard a couple, but
take several more deep breaths.
That's some really heavy stuff, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: One out of 1,000
people might have any clue what
the gobbledygook that just came
out of my mouth says, okay?
I get it, it's very confusing stuff.
But what I want you to come back to
is to remember that we don't have
to understand how 1 plus 1 equals 2.
We don't have to able
mathematically prove or
derive that to be able to add
up our check at the restaurant.
I've now shown you that there
is a way to derive things and
there is a meta commentary that I make.
The reason I include this derivation
in the course, it's not just, so
that I can like totally blow your mind.
But the reason I wanted to include this
is if you go back through these slides,
you won't be able to do it right at
this moment, cuz I know things are awash
in your head, just like they
almost are in mine, I get it.
But if you go back and
you look through these slides,
you're gonna see that every single step of
that derivation that I did uses the basic
principles that I've
taught you in this course.
There was actually no black magic at all.
There was no fancy other utility
that I came up with out of the blue.
No other kind of pattern I used.
I just did abstraction which we've
talked about, we did composition,
we did currying,
we did all of those little
Lego pieces that I've already
taught you in the course.
And what's fascinating and amazing,
to me, is that those little pieces can,
in just the right configuration, produce
something as powerful as transduction.
Imagine what other sorts of things we can
accomplish if we really get our brains
wrapped around the power of these
fundamental functional principles.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Could you take it us,
well I sure maybe you can or can't, or
maybe it wouldn't be a good idea.
But you could take it a step farther and
adjust and
change the shape of that reducer so
that instead of having
pass in 2 arguments,
you could just then pass in sum.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm
not sure I understand.
>> Speaker 2: So
instead of having to pass in 2
arguments then-
>> Kyle Simpson: Reductions always need
an initial value.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: So you remember
several slides back when I showed you
the transduce utility it also
takes an initial value and
into also takes an initial value.
Generally speaking a reduction
always needs an initial value.
Could you make it so that that initial
value could somehow be assumed?
Well, in a particular problem domain, if
you knew you were doing numeric addition,
you could assume 0.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: But if your
transducer was doing multiplication,
you'd have to assume 1 and
if it was doing string concatenation,
you'd have to assume empty string.
So, generally speaking, the safest
approach is to always know that when
you're going to do a reduction
you need a good initial value.
>> Speaker 2: Thanks.
>> Kyle Simpson: What's
key to note here though,
is 0 doesn't get passed
into the transducer.
The transducer didn't
care about the 0 at all.
0 is for the purposes of the .reduce,
cuz reduce has to have somewhere to start.
>> Speaker 2: That's right.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, transducer itself
is a mathematic thing that's been reshaped
entirely and it's completely agnostic of
what values are about to flow through it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes?
>> Speaker 3: I'm curious, if you
weren't actually summing it afterwards,
how far back would you go to set this up?
Cuz I can picture a bunch of times when I
would wanna just filter and map something.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if I didn't pass in
sum, if I passed in a string concatenator.
It takes an x and a y and adds them
together as a string concatenation,
what would the end results
of this have been?
>> Speaker 3: It would just
be a string of all those-
>> Kyle Simpson: It would be a string of
each one of those individual numbers which
ended up adding up to the number 42, but
it would've been each of those
individual numbers as a string.
What if I passed in list combination,
what would we have gotten?
>> Speaker 3: An array?
>> Kyle Simpson: We would have an array
that had the values that had been mapped
and filtered.
So what reducer I pass into my transducer
completely decides what end results I get.
>> Speaker 4: Yes, but if-
>> Kyle Simpson: If I want to mathematics
summing, I pass in sum.
If I want a string concatenation, I pass
in and that's exactly what into is doing.
Into's saying you gave me
a 0 as an initial value,
it's a pretty good bet that
what you want back is a number,
I'm gonna go ahead and guess that you
want to just add everything together.
That's what it's doing.
It's making those sorts of assumptions and
we can see the power of that here.
We can use this exact same transducer
with any different reducer and
come up with a different end result.
>> Speaker 3: So if you just
wanted to do the filter in map,
would you not do a transducer or would you
pass in like identity or something that?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
you pass an identity.
That's exactly right.
If you feel awash with confusion,
and fear and terror,
come back to what hopefully was a little
bit more comfortable, which was,
how do I just use that transduce utility?
Let the API do it for me, right?
[LAUGH] I need to pass any of my filters
to a utility called filter reducer,
I need to pass any of my mapper
is to a utility called mapreduce.
And then I compose those using my
plain old normal regular compose,
which we've already written on it in
this course we know how to make compose.
And I take that transducer pass
it into transduce the utility and
we get our end result
>> Speaker 5: Does this it all explain how
RxJS works with streaming?
>> Kyle Simpson: Hm,
I am certainly not qualified
to speak to the internals of RxJS.
I can say that RxJS in the version 6,
which was at this moment,
was the latest version that
had been released of RxJS.
They moved in a direction where
instead of having chained methods that
you basically do piping,
you do a composition with piping.
That's not the same thing
as a transduction, but
it is friendlier to transduction, right.
So with those chain methods
that you had in RxJS before,
you really couldn't have
combined all of those steps.
Now that we're in a piping, but
a composition you at least theoretically
could transform some of those
RxJS operators that are reducers,
you could transform them into
transducers that could compose.
I haven't tried that, but I do think it
would probably be more friendly to that.
>> Speaker 5: Cool, thanks.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: I'm just curious
cuz I was looking earlier.
Do you know why they made a pipe and
not a compose?
>> Kyle Simpson: Where?
>> Speaker 3: RxJS, I was-
>> Kyle Simpson: Why they called it pipe
rather than compose?
>> Speaker 3: Well like you had said
that compose go's is right to left-
>> Kyle Simpson: Right to left.
>> Speaker 3: And pipe is left to right
and I just was looking through the API and
I did notice they didn't
even have a compose at all.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah I
don't think they do.
And there's a very simple reason, I don't
know if this is really the reason, but
there's a very simple reason.
What they're trying to do is get you
to convert from your chained list to
a pipe and
those are in the exact same order in pipe.
To convert to a compose you'd have to
reverse everything, and they probably
felt like that would be super confusing
to people, so they just made an API that
allowed you to just probably indent and
take out the dots and that's it, right?
>> Speaker 6: They actually wrote
a tool to do that, so yeah.
[LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: So, there you go.
>> Speaker 3: You could
still write the compose.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, again, we actually
talked about this earlier in the course
when we were talking about composition and
piping.
When you're in the habit of doing these
imperative things like method chaining,
piping feels more natural to you.
When you fully immerse yourself in
the ideas of functional programming,
I think compose ends up being
a lot more natural to use.
So it's kind of,
maybe a different way of getting there.
They still have composition but they got
there from a very sort of imperative
method chaining kind of routine.
>> Speaker 7: It seems much
more natural to me right now.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
it definitely does to most people, start
out seeming more natural to do piping.
But, my experience and many people
that I've seen is eventually it ends
up being composition is more
convenient and useful, so.
I think that's why it's more
common in functional programming.
Certainly both compose and pipe
are composition from the perspective of
declarative data flow,
and that's a good thing.
That is definitely consistent
with functional principles.